<--Top Line-->

The beautiful Lake Taupō is about the size of Singapore – more of an inland sea really.


<--Bottom Line-->

Taupō was created nearly two thousand years ago by a volcanic eruption so big it darkened the skies in Europe and China. Visit the Craters of the Moon and you'll see evidence of the lake's fiery birth in the geysers, steaming craters and boiling mud pools. At some of Taupō's beaches, swimmers and paddlers can enjoy warm, geothermal water currents. 

Just north of Taupō you'll find New Zealand's most visited attraction, the magnificent Huka Falls, where more than 220,000 litres of water thunder over the cliff face every second.

For those who love the night sky, Taupō offers an unparalleled stargazing experience. Many glamping sites(opens in new window) in the area provide the ideal setting for this, allowing you to relax under starlit skies, soak in outdoor baths, and enjoy the tranquility of nature. Whether you choose a high-end glamping site or a cosy, rustic option, stargazing in Taupō is an unforgettable experience.





Taupō is a great lake for water-skiing, sailing and kayaking. The Māori rock carvings at Mine Bay, which can only be seen from the water, make for a great boat trip or kayaking excursion. The forests surrounding the lake offer hiking and mountain biking to suit all levels of experience.

But what Taupō is really known for is fishing. The town of Tūrangi has the largest natural trout fishery in the world; this is the place to cast a line and look for the big one. Tūrangi also happens to provide a convenient base for exploring Tongariro National Park, whether it be walking the Tongariro Alpine Crossing (New Zealand's most popular day walk) or skiing at Whakapapa and Turoa ski fields.

Taupō is centrally located in the middle of the North Island, approximately 3 1/2 hours drive from Auckland and 4 1/2 hours drive from Wellington. There's a genuinely friendly culture here and plenty of accommodation – so why not stay awhile?

